update molecular subtyping pathology (#854)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis: analyses/molecular-subtyping-pathology/01-compile-subtyping-results.Rmd

                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(integrated_diagnosis = 
>            ifelse(molecular_subtype == "CNS Embryonal, NOS", "CNS Embryonal Tumor, NOS",
>                   ifelse(molecular_subtype == "CNS HGNET-MN1", "CNS Embryonal Tumor, HGNET-MN1",
>                          ifelse(molecular_subtype == "CNS NB-FOXR2", "CNS neuroblastoma",
>                                 ifelse(molecular_subtype == "ETMR, C19MC-altered", "Embryonal tumor with multilayer rosettes, C19MC-altered",
>                                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "ETMR, NOS",
>                 "Embryonal tumor with multilayer rosettes, NOS", NA))))),
>         short_histology = 
>           ifelse(molecular_subtype %in% c("ETMR, C19MC-altered", "ETMR, NOS"),
>                 "ETMR", "Embryonal Tumor"),
>         broad_histology = "Embryonal Tumor")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "CNS Embryonal, NOS"~ "CNS Embryonal Tumor, NOS",
                                          molecular_subtype == "CNS HGNET-MN1"~ "CNS Embryonal Tumor, HGNET-MN1",
                                          molecular_subtype == "CNS NB-FOXR2" ~ "CNS neuroblastoma",
                                          molecular_subtype == "ETMR, C19MC-altered"~ "Embryonal tumor with multilayer rosettes, C19MC-altered",
                                          molecular_subtype == "ETMR, NOS"~"Embryonal tumor with multilayer rosettes, NOS",
                                          TRUE ~ NA_character_), 
        short_histology = 
          if_else(molecular_subtype %in% c("ETMR, C19MC-altered", "ETMR, NOS"),
                "ETMR", "Embryonal Tumor"),
        broad_histology = "Embryonal Tumor")

```

                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(integrated_diagnosis = 
>            ifelse(molecular_subtype == "DMG, H3 K28", "Diffuse midline glioma, H3 K28-mutant",
>          ifelse(molecular_subtype == "DMG, H3 K28, BRAF V600E", "Diffuse midline glioma, H3 K28-mutant, BRAF V600E",
>                 ifelse(molecular_subtype == "HGG, BRAF V600E", "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF V600E", 
>                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "HGG, H3 G35", "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, H3 G35-mutant",
>                          ifelse(molecular_subtype == "HGG, H3 wildtype", "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, H3 wildtype",
>                                 ifelse(molecular_subtype == "HGG, IDH", "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, IDH-mutant", NA)))))),
>                   broad_histology == "Diffuse astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumor",
>                   short_histology == "HGAT")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "DMG, H3 K28"~ "Diffuse midline glioma, H3 K28-mutant",
                                          molecular_subtype == "DMG, H3 K28, BRAF V600E"~ "Diffuse midline glioma, H3 K28-mutant, BRAF V600E",
                                          molecular_subtype == "HGG, BRAF V600E"~ "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF V600E",
                                          molecular_subtype == "HGG, H3 G35" ~ "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, H3 G35-mutant",
                                          molecular_subtype == "HGG, H3 wildtype" ~ "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, H3 wildtype",
                                          molecular_subtype == "HGG, IDH"~ "High-grade glioma/astrocytoma, IDH-mutant", 
                                          TRUE~ NA_character_),
                  broad_histology = "Diffuse astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumor",
                  short_histology = "HGAT")
```

```

### Handling LGAT

```{r}
lgat_results_df <- bind_exp_strategies(lgat_results_df) %>%
  inner_join(select(histologies_df,
                    Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID,
                    pathology_diagnosis,
                    integrated_diagnosis,
                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(integrated_diagnosis = 
>            ifelse(molecular_subtype == "LGG, BRAF fusion", "Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF fusion",
>                   ifelse(molecular_subtype == "LGG, BRAF V600E", "Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF V600E", 
>                          ifelse(molecular_subtype == "LGG, BRAF wildtype", "Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF wildtype", NA))),
>                   broad_histology == "Low-grade astrocytic tumor",
>                   short_histology == ifelse(pathology_diagnosis == "Ganglioglioma", "Ganglioglioma", "LGAT"))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "LGG, BRAF fusion"~ "Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF fusion",
                                          molecular_subtype == "LGG, BRAF V600E" ~ "Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF V600E", 
                                          molecular_subtype == "LGG, BRAF wildtype"~ "Low-grade glioma/astrocytoma, BRAF wildtype", 
                                          TRUE ~NA_character_),
                  broad_histology = "Low-grade astrocytic tumor",
                  short_histology = if_else(pathology_diagnosis == "Ganglioglioma", "Ganglioglioma", "LGAT"))
```

```

### Handling EPN 

```{r}
epn_results_df <- bind_exp_strategies(epn_results_df) %>%
  inner_join(select(histologies_df,
                    Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID,
                    integrated_diagnosis,
                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(molecular_subtype = subgroup) %>%
>   mutate(molecular_subtype = ifelse(is.na(molecular_subtype), "EPN, To be classified", molecular_subtype), 
>          integrated_diagnosis = ifelse(molecular_subtype == "PT_EPN_A", 
>                                        "Posterior Fossa Ependymoma, Type A",
>                                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "ST_EPN_RELA",
>                                        "Supratentorial Ependymoma, RELA fusion positive",
>                                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "ST_EPN_YAP1", "Supratentorial Ependymoma, YAP1 fusion positive", NA))),
>          broad_histology == "Ependymal Tumor",
>          short_histology == "Ependymoma")
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(molecular_subtype = subgroup) %>%
  mutate(molecular_subtype = if_else(is.na(molecular_subtype), "EPN, To be classified", molecular_subtype), 
         integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "PT_EPN_A" ~ "Posterior Fossa Ependymoma, Type A",
                                          molecular_subtype == "ST_EPN_RELA" ~ "Supratentorial Ependymoma, RELA fusion positive",
                                          molecular_subtype == "ST_EPN_YAP1" ~ "Supratentorial Ependymoma, YAP1 fusion positive", 
                                          TRUE~ NA_character_),
         broad_histology = "Ependymal Tumor",
         short_histology = "Ependymoma")
```

### Handling MB

```{r}
mb_results_df <- bind_exp_strategies(mb_results_df) %>%
  inner_join(select(histologies_df,
                    Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID,
                    integrated_diagnosis,
                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(integrated_diagnosis = ifelse(molecular_subtype == "MB, SHH",
>                                        "Medulloblastoma, SHH-activated",
>                                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "MB, WNT","Medulloblastoma, WNT-activated",
>                                               ifelse(molecular_subtype == "MB, Group3", 
>                                                      "Medulloblastoma, group 3",
>                                                      ifelse(molecular_subtype == "MB, Group4",
>                                                             "Medulloblastoma, group 4", NA)))),
>          broad_histology == "Embryonal Tumor",
>          short_histology == "Medulloblastoma")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "MB, SHH"~"Medulloblastoma, SHH-activated",
                                          molecular_subtype == "MB, WNT"~"Medulloblastoma, WNT-activated",
                                          molecular_subtype == "MB, Group3"~"Medulloblastoma, group 3",
                                          molecular_subtype == "MB, Group4"~ "Medulloblastoma, group 4", 
                                          TRUE ~NA_character_),
         broad_histology = "Embryonal Tumor",
         short_histology = "Medulloblastoma")
```

```

### Handling CRANIO

```{r}
cranio_results_df <- bind_exp_strategies(cranio_results_df) %>%
  inner_join(select(histologies_df,
                    Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID,
                    integrated_diagnosis,
                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(integrated_diagnosis = ifelse(molecular_subtype == "CRANIO, ADAM",
>                                        "Adamantimomatous craniopharyngioma",
>                                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "CRANIO, PAP","Papillary craniopharyngioma", NA)),
>          broad_histology == "Tumors of sellar region",
>          short_histology == "Craniopharyngioma")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "CRANIO, ADAM" ~"Adamantimomatous craniopharyngioma",
                                          molecular_subtype == "CRANIO, PAP" ~"Papillary craniopharyngioma", 
                                          TRUE ~ NA_character_),
         broad_histology = "Tumors of sellar region",
         short_histology = "Craniopharyngioma")
```

```

### Handling Neurocytoma
```{r}
neurocytoma_results_df <- neurocytoma_results_df %>%
  inner_join(select(histologies_df,
                    Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID,
                    integrated_diagnosis,
                    short_histology,
                    broad_histology,
                    Notes),

>              by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
>   mutate(integrated_diagnosis = ifelse(molecular_subtype == "CNC",
>                                        "Central Neurocytoma",
>                                        ifelse(molecular_subtype == "EVN","Extraventricular Neurocytoma", NA)),
>          broad_histology == "Neuronal and mixed neuronal-glial tumor",
>          short_histology == "Neurocytoma")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            by = "Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID") %>%
  mutate(integrated_diagnosis = case_when(molecular_subtype == "CNC"~ "Central Neurocytoma",
                                          molecular_subtype == "EVN" ~"Extraventricular Neurocytoma", 
                                        TRUE ~ NA_character_),
         broad_histology = "Neuronal and mixed neuronal-glial tumor",
         short_histology = "Neurocytoma")
```
